[doc][cdc][2024.2.1] CDC Data Retention (#25291)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/develop/change-data-capture/using-logical-replication/advanced-configuration.md

Retaining resources has an impact on the system. Clients are expected to consume these transactions within configurable duration limits. Resources will be released if the duration exceeds these configured limits.

> Use the [cdc_intent_retention_ms](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#cdc-intent-retention-ms) & [cdc_wal_retention_time_secs](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#cdc_wal_retention_time_secs) flag to control the duration for which resources are retained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [cdc_intent_retention_ms](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#cdc-intent-retention-ms) and [cdc_wal_retention_time_secs](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#cdc-wal-retention-time-secs) flags to control the duration for which resources are retained.
```

Resources are retained for each tablet of a table that is part of a database whose changes are being consumed using a replication slot. This includes those tables that may not be currently part of the publication specification.

Starting from 2024.2.1, the data retention configuration for Change Data Capture (CDC) has been updated. The default retention period is now set to 8 hours, with support for maximum retention up to 24 hours. Prior to 2024.2.1, the default retention for CDC is 4 hours.

{{< warning title="Important" >}}

> When using replica identity FULL or DEFAULT, CDC preserves previous row values for UPDATE and DELETE operations. This is accomplished by retaining history for each row in the database through a suspension of the compaction process. Compaction process is halted by setting retention barriers to prevent cleanup of history for those rows that are yet to be streamed to the CDC client. These retention barriers are dynamically managed and advanced only after the CDC events are streamed and explicitly acknowledged by the client, thus allowing compaction of history for streamed rows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using FULL or DEFAULT replica identities, CDC preserves previous row values for UPDATE and DELETE operations. This is done by retaining history for each row in the database through a suspension of the compaction process. Compaction is halted by setting retention barriers to prevent cleanup of history for those rows that are yet to be streamed to the CDC client. These retention barriers are dynamically managed and advanced only after the CDC events are streamed and explicitly acknowledged by the client, thus allowing compaction of history for streamed rows. 
```
